Happy Friday. It's 9:00 a.m. in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here in Hong
Kong, you're watching the China Show.
I'm Ivon Man with David and Glass.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets uh in greater China.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Asian stocks and bonds are under
pressure as this renewed spike in oil
prices, stoking fears the war uh in Iran
will further strain energy supplies and
also fuel inflation. Iran's new supreme
leader says the straight of hormuz will
remain effectively shut as President
Trump shrugs off rising crude prices.
>> And we take a closer look at how Asian
countries are dealing with this massive
disruption in fuel supply. The
Philippines energy secretary joins us
exclusively this hour.
>> Plus, how the Middle East conflict
threatens the supply of helium needed
for chip production, potentially
deepening a crunch.
Okay. Uh, as we wrap up what has been a
pretty volatile week, we're still
talking about Brent, uh, around the
$100, you know, level and certainly
there's going to be a lot of questions
because it seems like you're still
seeing defiance from both sides of the
US as well as Iran here. the Supreme
Leader, the new one, really coming up
with his first public comments and
basically saying straight up horm will
remain shut.
>> Yeah. And it so they're digging in. Yes.
There's no sign of an obvious or in
public offramp. U markets are reacting
to that by I think when you had the
close on Brent yesterday for the very
first time since 2022, actually settled
above a 100 bucks. So, we're looking at
how that's trading and of course that's
really furthered inflation expectations
and it's erased basically all the gains
we've seen in global equities and global
bonds year to date.
>> And now you're talking about even the
possibility of Fed rate cuts. That's
that seems to be priced out in in this
market here, right? And some are even
saying you might have to wait till mid
2027 for that next Fed rate cut as well.
So certainly that's what's ruling the
bond market for sure. It's not just
really about the inflation concerns uh
and really whether the Fed uh can
actually cut this year there. You also
now start to have an element of how
they're going to fund this war, right?
We might need to see more issuance in
the Treasury market for them to continue
on this prolonged conflict.
>> Yeah. And the two-year yield where it is
and that spike to about the highest in
about seven or eight months really is
indicative of both supply constraints,
supply issues, and also uh inflation
expectations. Let's start things off
here with where we are as far as Brent
is concerned. West Texas, Shanghai oil
and gold, which by the way has rem, you
know, you've removed now the rate cut
support coming through in gold prices.
And effectively, you're not getting this
bid across the gold prices, which
normally would be the case on times like
this. Gold uh well, Brent is still above
100 bucks. New York crude is at about 95
96. Shanghai crude, of course, you add
freight cost and of course, you do get
to where you are in price there. Uh the
dollar story is one where you have a
stronger dollar. You have rate cuts now
being priced out. I think we're now
looking at about a 75% probability
uh of even just one rate cut before the
end of this year and a two-year yield
where it is two-year break evens. I
should also mention that to highest in
about a year or so. Uh really indicative
of that of that specific story. Now, the
new iteration as it pertains to equity
markets is really the helium story and
TSMC. And who would have thought helium
would be another catalyst that pops the
AI bubble or AI balloon if you want to
use that analogy. Um right now of course
uh you know a lot of these chipmakers
effectively need uh that specific energy
source and a lot of that comes from
Qatar and the fact that you're not
getting it currently right now is
another reasons are selling off. The
silver lining that is Friday 410 to 1%
to the upside on S&P futures. Msei China
is still holding up 4 days into the
week. So, we are currently still set for
a weekly close higher. Let's see, of
course, how we managed last session of
of of of the week. Uh bond auctions
today to tell you about two bond
auctions specifically total 330 I think
it's one and also two-year bond auctions
in China this Friday.
>> Yeah, you mentioned about helium,
bromine. These are some of the names
that we're learning here this morning
about uh on this whole semiconductor
supply chain. I think BIA had a a very
good call about maybe you know take a
look at some of these North Asian
economies they probably only have a few
months of supply and helium is not
something that can easily be replaced as
well. So Qatar now that has been
effectively shut that's really a massive
hit really on what already has been a
massive supply crunch.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Among the the many the many things
uh and we're two weeks into two week
we're barely halfway into March and the
oil price 65% to the upside year today.
really does this to you. Okay. Um let's
let's get into this and this digging
them their heels deeper into their
respective camps here.
>> Yeah. The Iran's new supreme leader says
the straight of Hormuz should remain
shut and that tan will open other fronts
in the war if US and Israeli attacks
continue. President Trump though has
shrugged off oil concerns and says
preventing Iran from owning nuclear
weapons is more important.
>> The situation with Iran is moving along
very rapidly. It's uh doing very well.
Our military is unsurpassed. There's
never been anything like it. Nobody's
ever seen anything like it. They really
are a a nation of terror and hate and
they're paying a big price right now.
>> Let's bring in Jill Dus, our managing
editor. Um and it seems like both sides
are not backing down as as of yet.
>> No, I mean I think Ivon, you have to
particularly look at some of these
statements coming out of the new supreme
leader in Iran. remember the son of the
old leader Ali Kmani. Um I mean he's
already um sort of perceived as more of
a hardliner even than his father was. Um
and you have some really really you know
some really really aggressive statements
here that indicate that they know that
um the straight of Hermuz is pretty much
a massive point of leverage uh in this
entire conflict. I mean it's certainly
what uh oil markets are paying attention
to when it comes to um you know whether
or not ships can actually transit
through there. Um and so a lot of these
comments about um not backing down
really I think kind of underscore the
fact that um you know this does seem to
be um you know something that could
potentially turn into a prolonged
campaign. Obviously you've got Trump on
the other side of this saying that um
you know he it he doesn't necessarily
care about what he perceives as maybe a
temporary uh you know a surge in the
price of oil if it means um you know
sort of toppling this regime preventing
Iran from gaining nuclear weapons. But
obviously um really really difficult to
see that right now or at least to kind
of understand where this uncertainty
might end when you've got this kind of
rhetoric coming out of both sides.
>> Yeah. And speaking of both and Israel of
course is part of that uh the dynamic
here. I think it was a week ago uh we
heard from the Iranians and they
apologized to their neighbors for you
know some of the projectiles that were
sent that way. They said you know if
anything comes from you then we have to
respond. What is the latest in as far as
this inter sort of between Iran and its
neighbors and the attacks we're seeing
because that goes into the sort of
energy conversation right now?
>> Yes, it definitely does, David. And I
think um you know obviously you're kind
of continuing to see some of these
military strikes play out over the
course of this week. Um but I do
actually think one of the interesting
things that came out of um you know at
least the Israeli side of things is
Netanyahu um you know is also pointing
to the fact that it's really difficult
to see any kind of um you know regime
shift um that those are things that um I
think he said um come from within. Uh so
you've got um you know even that
acknowledgement at least coming from
from Netanyahu that this is a really
really difficult situation to see any
kind of sort of widespread regime change
and again really just points to you know
where does this conflict end obviously
with Trump um that's aggressive military
action leading to something but even
Trump um you know over the last couple
of weeks has said this could take you
know four to five to six weeks um but
we're prepared to go longer. So, I mean,
you've even got um, you know, despite
some of this rhetoric coming out of
Trump recently, that acknowledgement
that um, you know, there's there's not a
whole lot of clarity on when exactly
this is going to end
>> and how, right? And what they and what
they would consider, of course, closure,
if we could even talk about that at this
stage. Uh, Jill, thank you so much.
Jill, the getting us up to speed. Our
managing editor, as we talked about, the
market iteration here is really, I
think, the biggest development overnight
was the market has now pushed back
expectations for when the Fed uh, would
be able to cut interest rates. We have a
rate decision by the way next week that
is in pertinent information at this
point in time. On your screens is that
repricing around let's call it the
December meeting. So we've gone from one
full rate cut just yesterday to now
about just an 80% probability of a full
rate cut before the end of this year and
obviously that's hit bond markets quite
badly. Uh joining us now is Tracy Tren
to talk us through this portfolio
manager at Brandy Wine Global. Tracy,
good good morning from Hong Kong and
thank you for joining us again here. How
have you guys managed your fixed income
exposure recently?
>> Good uh good morning David and Ivon. Um
so as a uh global bond manager going
into this year we are really uh
constructive on global growth and we
also think inflation is relatively under
control. So we are go we are big on
international and also uh slightly
underweight duration. uh but with this
conflict going on inflation is uh
actually ramping up as a a big risk
right um stackflation becomes almost the
consensus and I think it's really
depending on how long this conflict will
go um duration of the conflict is a key
um if it goes on like one or two weeks I
think u it's just some risk premium uh
is raised uh but again uh we can buy the
dip right um but so far we haven't seen
um like um uh panic selling yet. So I
think the market is pretty much a still
uh like still relatively complacent. Um
so we have been raising US dollar
waiting a little bit um just to uh to
increase our hedge but at the same time
we see some uh idiosyncratic uh
attractive opportunities uh coming up
like in particular selective EM currency
and EM bond and even if in the DM bond
market uh like uh Euro zone DM bond um
their sell off has been more significant
in the US than the US Treasury. So we
are looking at those opportunities and
uh waiting for this um uh further
development of of this war um to see
whether we should uh dip our toes into
those opportunities or we we can just
wait for now and keep monitoring the
status.
>> Yeah, the front end seems to be where
you're seeing most of the volatility. Is
that where you're likely to look into
those dip buying opportunities and what
would be that trigger for you Tracy? Um
I think in the US Treasury um we don't
think it's a time yet. Um I we think the
the curve will probably still uh bear
flattening uh for the time being but I I
think there are more opportunities in
the EM space or um the Euro zone space
and uh we still like um asset with
abundant liquidity and quality asset um
like and and and especially some uh
asset that's more um constructive on
commodities, right? Uh we know AI uh is
commodity and we need to position our
portfolio to be more constructive on on
commodity. Um especially latam Latan uh
bond market is is fascinating to us.
Uh Tracy, when you talk about emn say
Europe that you just mentioned, are just
specifically are we talking hard
currency? Are we talking just because of
the dollar complex, you know, dollar
complexity recently?
>> Uh it's more local currency like uh BTP
uh Italian uh peripheral bonds. Um they
they they have been selling off quite a
lot. So we are still analyzing and
monitoring to see what would be the
better entry point.
>> How are you hedging now? I mean what are
the best strategies now Tracy?
>> Um for for for hedging um we have to
compare the the carry cost right um may
maybe it's not the the the best time uh
actually it it's it's a good good time
to hedge because um of the dollar
strength and uh if dollar keeps
strengthening I I think those um EM uh
EM exposure will have more volatility
and also the Euro zone. Yeah,
>> Tracy, the changing
uh pricing and expectations around the
Fed. You just probably heard as we
talked about how that's no longer the
base case for a for a cut. There's a
minority view out there that the Fed in
fact should in fact cut and look through
the supply side shock. What What is your
view?
>> Um I don't think they should cut
actually. Um I I think the inflation um
probably will be stickier going going
forward. Uh because it's not it's not
just oil. If you look at all the
commodities that has been uh affected by
the state of uh horm uh I think it's uh
it's LNG and it's some also some
fertilizer um it's probably more
broad-based than the market uh is
thinking so I think it will have some u
some some pass through effect pretty
soon um so I I think um it's the the the
Fed should not just simply uh look
beyond this I I think it will have some
more uh repercussions in terms terms of
the impact on on inflation.
So um and also it's probably more
stackflation and the the uh right right
now we have three crossurrens of risks.
One is this um oil oil oil risk. Um the
other is the the the AI right the AI
probably replacing some of the white
collar jobs and the third one is a
private credit. uh that one we have been
closely monitoring as well and we
recently see some mini bank runs of um
of withdrawals from some private credit
funds. So so I think those three risks
they they actually uh interlin each
other and um if the oil price uh keep
going higher some of the input cost to
the AI investment will become higher as
well. So maybe that can burst the AI uh
I don't want to call bubble but it's
definitely some some some uh uh euphoria
in the AI development and then the
private equity um you have underwriting
issue and then you have some uh some
some uh lack of transparency to to put
it that way.
>> So and and the software um the software
issue. So they are all interlin um it's
really hard to see uh right now what
what what will pan out. Yeah.
Uh Tracy, you laid it out uh what's
ahead of us uh very well. Tracy Tren
there, portfolio manager at Brandy Wine
Global joining us out of Philly uh this
evening. Um we take a look when it comes
to as the war in Iran continues to drag
and fuel inflation fears. We speaking to
the likes of the Philippine energy
secretary. She joins us exclusively to
assess the impact of the crisis on its
economy. Sharon Gian joining us there in
a few moments.
>> Yeah. Uh ahead of that though, Cameracon
uh speaking of the uh earnings and
fundamental story riding the AI boom to
report its first annual profit. Details
of that just ahead. Also cutting down to
the open markets. We're looking at
chips. Uh an update in case you're
curious. TSMC 15 minutes in the cash
market session down. Helium concerns
there. Uh we'll tell you what that means
exactly. The opening bell 14 minutes
away. Shanghai Shanzhen and here in Hong
Kong. This is the China show. Good
morning.
All right. Uh, we've been talking about
this resilient Asia market, which by by
the way, you know, I just had a glance
at month-to- date performance. Shenzhen
is actually at the very top, near the
very top uh, in terms of best performing
markets. changing composite uh month to
date and really that's comes down to
constituency ownership but suffice to
say Asia resilience is a feature uh
we'll be tracking there's a CGB sale we
talked about that u for obvious reasons
energy AI brokers is a very Hong Kong
story and really one that is widely
followed given of course what's taking
place there if you know what I'm talking
about um and yes Cabricon Xpong and
Tensent music big move up in Tensent
music uh overnight u we'll get to the
Cabon in a moment, but you know, we're
circling back to this energy crunch
we're seeing and it's really coming up
in in different forms now.
>> Yeah. You know, you talk about the oil,
you talk about when it comes to LG, and
you know, you have to kind of look more
at this AI supply chain to see what
could be the next thing that gets hit.
>> And I think across that sort of LG story
is the helium story, right? And you know
this might actually risk even a bigger
chip crunch here just given that you
know you still need a lot of this sort
of energy to really fund this sort of AI
boom and certainly when it comes to some
of these chip makers that is the latest
focus here on of course that new supply
crunch and blur intelligence says when
it comes to some of these Asian chip
makers they have about 3 months until a
deficit of this gas begins to bite.
Let's get to our Asia tech correspondent
Annabelle Jeweler. She's with us here
right now. First of all, just walk us
through the whole process of helium and
why we're talking about it. Now,
>> everyone's getting up to speed on what
exactly helium is used for in the chip
manufacturing process. So, there are a
lot of technical details to it, but I
think what's important to emphasize is
that helium has exceptional cooling
capabilities. So, it's not used in it's
not an ingredient of the silicon wafer
itself. It's more used for its cooling
properties. So as the size of the chip
shrinks, you need to rapidly cool it.
And having helium there is what helps
have more precision in the etching
process, low less overheating and so it
drives up your yield. So that is where
helium comes into the manufacturing
process. What you also need to know,
people need to understand is that
there's no substitute for this. This is
it, you know. So that that is really
significant especially when you get into
advanced nodes. So 5 nanometer and below
that's where it becomes really important
in the process.
>> So that's sort of the the the helium
component of the chip manufacturing
process. But now the next stage is why
are we seeing the output taken offline
and this comes down to where helium is
is manufactured or how we get helium and
that's a byproduct. It's refined out of
LNG. M and so this Qatari facility has
come offline because there's been an
Iranian strike. This is the Las Raffen
facility. It's the world's largest LG
facility.
>> And so that has knocked a lot of well
that's knocked output off and that also
has a flowing impact to helium.
>> Even though the US is the world's
largest producer of hel uh LG rather,
they're using a lot of that domestically
and you really need that refinement
process for helium to to to come about.
And that's mostly being done by Qatar
and Russia. And so that is the
significance in terms of the impact that
likes of SKH Highix and TSMC is saying
they've got supply for now. Okay.
>> But but does it become an issue further
down the track? Possibly. And the big
question is
>> if you have this shortage, do you need
to then continue to prioritize your more
advanced nodes? And then that can that
exacerbates the memory chip crunch.
>> Right? Because that's the whole issue is
that as you have these producers like
SKHX and Samsung that are putting their
their bandwidth toward HBM, it's less
supply of of legacy technology.
>> Yeah. And those, you know, a lot of the
or we talked about, you know, the the
other component here was a lot of the
orders were already taken up going into
next year, right? If they can't come up
with it too, can we store Helium? I know
that sounds like a dumb question, but
how because do you stock up? Do you
stock up on the stuff? Well, that's the
issue is that yes, they're saying
they've got stockpiles that can last
them for several months. So, so they're
saying we're insulated right now. They
don't see any short-term impact.
>> Okay.
>> But that is part of the issue around the
supply is that there are tankers that
have been filled, but they're also being
stuck because the straight of Hormuza is
effectively shut. And so there's really
not any new supply coming into the
market. They've only got their own
reserves, it seems, to go off for now.
And as I said, they are saying they've
got them to last a few months.
The question is, of course, does this
extend? And then you'll start to see the
impact.
>> Um, speaking of which, we got some
earnings out of Capricorn. Uh, and it
seems like they posting its first annual
profit. What stood out to you?
>> Yeah. Well, that I mean that's the big
takeaway. It's it's really it's it's a
strong result obviously for Camericon.
Uh you saw their net income reaching $36
million for the period. That's actually
a little bit shy of estimates, but still
yes, the first ever uh annual rather
quarterly profit, but first ever annual
profit as well. So it rose to 6.5
billion yuan for the year. This is a
company of course it's uh a chip
designer in China. It's trying to be a
competitor to Nvidia. It also wants to
take market share away from Huawei uh in
the designing process as well. Uh and
they do have very big plans because
they're aiming what we hear from sources
is looking to triple their output in
2026.
>> Okay, Bill, thank you. Uh Annabelle
there with all the leads. We'll check
out what Capricorn does of course at the
open on the mainland here in Hong Kong.
Half of 1% to the downside is the early
indication for markets. Plenty more
ahead. This is the China show.
Right. The question I have is will the H
singing index close above or below the
200 day moving average which by the way
has held up decently um I wouldn't say
solidly because we've seen foray below
it but that's the level to watch on the
hing index in terms of support levels.
>> Yeah, you're starting to see more calls
of that. You know, Chinese assets are
probably the haven in the midst of all
this sort of Iran and volatility. Even
when it comes to remmbb uh there is some
calls on that too as well. Just 688 for
the currency here this morning. In terms
of stocks to watch, we're still focusing
on the chipmaker space here just given
what we've been hearing about helium and
the impact of this supply crunch and
what it could have uh globally. So you
are seeing most of these Chinese chip
makers are falling today. Huahung
semimpt are down about 1% as well.
Alibaba they're the latest to kind of
announce this new openclaw mobile app
according to some of the app stores. And
so uh join the likes of BU that made
their announcement this week as well.
the stock not moving too much and we are
focusing on the auto sector here. So Lee
Auto came out with uh earnings there.
They're talking about deliveries for the
first quarter at 85,000 to 90,000.
Exponent and Xiaomi reportedly had this
meeting with Stalantis here uh on on I
don't know how to partner a little bit
more in Europe and the like. So
certainly that's one thing to watch.
Cabon tech that's the one next to watch
here on the back of their earnings. So
surprise profit there. Stock is up some
1%. The open is next. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. Uh, happy Friday.
Good Friday morning from the Asia
Pacific. uh lots of major themes playing
spling across these markets. Obviously
the uh the two sides the US and Iran are
digging their heels even deeper. Uh and
that's really sending risk assets down.
It's point number one. Oil is up. Risk
premium is being built in and it's the
Fed has now been relegated to perhaps
next year as far as the next move is
concerned.
>> Yeah, I think it's only about a 70 to
80% chance of a cut this year. Um, and
really next year, next week virtually, I
think no chance now that they're going
to do anything. I think Goldman Sachs
was the latest just earlier, midweek
that they had to push back their rate
cut bets. Now, before it was, I believe,
June and September. Now, they're
thinking maybe it's more September,
maybe it's more December depending on
how long this situation unfolds. Uh,
here's how onshore markets are doing.
Uh, we're slightly to the downside here
today. It's kind of the same story that
they are, you know, relatively speaking,
doing better than the rest of the
region. CSI 300 is lower by about 4/10en
of 1%. Uh we're watching very closely
what happens in this, you know,
obviously what CGBs are doing just given
how this bond market route globally has
been quite pronounced and getting a bit
deeper uh in some ways given the
concerns around inflation shocks and
really uh the the the Fed not able to
really cut this year. Not seeing too
much movement when it comes to the CGB
right now. Uh but watch Shanghai crude.
We are up another 5% now for futures
there when it comes to uh China. So
certainly that's one thing to watch.
Cabricant tech, we're kind of just kind
of flat right now on the back of those
earnings, but did post their first
annual profit. We're slightly up here
this morning. Um, let's take the boards
and see how Hong Kong and the rest of
the tech space is doing. Obviously,
that's been the key focus here this week
given all this open claw frenzy, right?
So Alibaba is the latest to launch this
mobile app. When it comes to open claw,
we're seeing the stock down about a
fourth a 410 of 1% here. Um, HS Tech is
is mostly dragging things lower. We're
down about 7/10 of 1%. The Hang Sang is
just below that 25,600 level here. So,
um, marginal loss, I mean, Xiaomi is
interesting. We're down one and a half%.
There was this report according to our
sources that Stalantis is meeting up
with the likes of Xiaomi, with the likes
of Xpong uh for some sort of deal maybe
in Europe. But maybe you know they can
find some way to to collaborate and
partner given the fact that yeah,
Chinese EV makers have really kind of
made a dent in terms of these European
um car makers, the market share and the
like. So that's one big story to focus
on here today. We did have earnings from
MTR which we need to look into as well.
We'll have the CEO coming on later on in
the show. Uh let's look at the chip
makers. This is the big thing to watch
really now just given we've already seen
a bit of reaction when it comes to TSMC
when it comes to the SKH highix and
Samsungs of the world and there you go.
Now we got to talk about this helium
crunch that hits chips. I had to dig a
do a bit of research really how this all
fits into the whole AI supply chain
helium and bromine. Um but yes, out of
nowhere
>> out of nowhere um this is the maybe the
next sort of supply crunch we need to
deal with amidst this Iran situation
that continues on for another day. So,
as we wrap up the second week of this
conflict, so there you go. Hong Semi is
down close to 3%. We're mostly lower on
some of these chip names here today,
China oil stocks, uh, given the fact
that, you know, we we closed above 100
for Brent for the first time since 2022,
uh, is a clear enough signal that, you
know, things are going to stay elevated,
right? So, 5% up for Shanghai crude. A
mixed picture across some of these oil
names. You see China though up close to
3%.
>> Yeah. Okay. Let's let's use this oil uh
platform as a no no pun intended there
as a jumping off point really uh to our
next conversation here which is really
the resilience of Chinese markets uh and
could that also have to do with the fact
that also the open claw element is also
helping that resiliency along ownership
foreign flows uh but let's put all of
those things together joining us here on
set is our team Marvin Chen from
Bloomberg Intelligence and our tech
reporter L Ding of course who's here to
talk us through this open claw uh craze
that's that that's engulfed this the
Chinese market here. Uh but let me start
with you Marvin. Uh the last two weeks
have been anything but normal given
events in the Middle East. How what
stood out to you from the Chinese market
and how it's held up?
>> Yeah, I mean uh you know we're seeing
risk premiums marked up globally as this
uh kind of conflict uh you know we're
entering kind of uncharted territories
but you know we do think China is a bit
more resilient than regional peers uh uh
to the to the oil shock that we're
seeing. Um and this is really driven by
several factors right you know China has
one of the uh largest reserves in the
world at over estimated at over 1
billion barrels and you know they also
have uh more diversified energy sources
you know they have coal and renewables
as well so I mean you know that their
focus on energy security is kind of
paying off right now. Um also we have
you know the faster um uh transition to
renewables and uh adoption of EVs. So
this all helps kind of China weather
this uh oil shock a little bit better
than uh you know regional peers.
>> I guess we talk about the cushion I
guess as Dave mentioned when it comes to
open claw. Do you think that actually
might revive what we're seeing in the
China tech sector? Yeah, I think you
know this is definitely another one of
those moments for uh China Tech in that
um you know this is uh represents the
next step of AI bringing uh making it
more than just a chat box for uh uh mass
adoption and you know the fact that
Tencent Alibaba are moving so quick on
this uh really kind of surprised us you
know because you know Tencent was uh uh
previously fairly passive in their AI
investment uh but uh you know um you
know we uh their their work buddy uh uh
app uh you know we we tried it out
installed it in less than a minute and
it's uh I think uh it it is a potential
inflection point for uh mass
>> you tested it out
>> yeah yeah it's very easy to install it's
uh very quick and uh straightforward you
know it's in the ecosystem that people
trust right in the 10-centent wrapper um
people are familiar with it so I think
this is really uh can accelerate uh
adoption of these agents
>> right
>> one minute yeah
>> uh lose the is this the new deepseek
moment
Well, not exactly. I mean, Deep Seek
represented when like Chinese innovation
despite US restrictions on uh chips, but
this is open clause creator is not
Chinese. Uh and he has since then joined
uh open AI. But then people have told us
that uh this represents potentially a
starting a testing of a lot of AI agents
and merging in China because what China
doesn't like is the population and a lot
of companies that are eager to try all
things AI. So potentially there could be
a lot of innovation coming up in terms
of AI application. That's what people
are expecting.
>> There there has been some I guess
regulatory scrutiny uh when it comes to
the use of this when it comes to banks,
>> stateowned agencies and the like. But
how do you think overall Chinese
authority has reacted to this?
>> Well, it's being it's been mixed and
relatively reserved. Uh well, as you
mentioned there there has been like some
kind of ban on the use of open claw in
uh sensitive areas like banks and
government agencies. Uh but then bear in
mind like this is a foreign software
that can potentially be very risky if
you deploy it offline but there's no
outright ban yet. So that means
potentially that the authorities also
does not want to miss the economic
opportunities that could be brought by
open claw
>> and not that we're saying of course a
total ban is coming but currently the
situation is of course they they just
talked about certain government agencies
of course Marvin concerns while it is a
obviously it's something that markets
have embraced how are you looking at the
mechanism to earnings and the
monetization as it pertains to the big
tech place too just given of course the
earnings uh the earning season we're
going through.
>> Yeah. I mean, I don't think we're going
to see any impact on earnings uh uh
growth in the near term. Uh I mean,
obviously still I think we're still
trying to reach the critical mass of
usage. Um uh so yeah, I mean it could be
a negative impact on on earnings in the
near term, but um I mean I think the
focus at this point is kind of reaching
that critical mass of adoption, getting
people more familiar with it, getting
people on the platform. Yeah.
>> All right. Um Marvin, thank you. also
loose uh on this whole phenomenon that
we're seeing unfold in China here, this
embracing of of open claw. That's our
tech reporter Ling and Marvin Chenflu
Bloomberg intelligence. All right,
coming up, we're still talking about
Iran and oil and we're going to speak
exclusively with the Philippines energy
secretary as we assess how Asian
economies have been impacted by the Iran
situation. That's next. This is Boomer.
Well, welcome back. Just to bring to
your attention, uh, and again, there's
there's not a lot of detail we know just
yet about this, but the Afghan
government has now said that Pakistan is
striking Kabul and other provinces.
That's all we know out of AFP. We will
bring you more updates and details once
we have more information on what is uh
what seems to be an escalation in that
specific uh part of the world of
>> Yeah. So obviously there's still a lot
of things to track here uh when it comes
to this conflict and others. Um you know
it's not just what we're seeing when it
comes to oil prices obviously but we you
know we talked about helium here this
morning. You talk about, you know, the
straight of Hormuz and what this new
supreme leader of Iran has mentioned
that, you know, basically is is a
hardliner here when it comes to this
this waterway is going to remain shut.
So, I think that we're coming to the
reality that this is becoming much more
of a structural sort of issue of late
and and that's why you are still seeing
Brent above that 100 bucks level around
that here right now. But certainly,
there's going to be a lot in terms of
what Asian economies can do, right? You
know, these fuel price hikes that we've
been talking about in much of Southeast
Asia. Uh and there's going to be more of
this I'm guessing as we look for more
contingency plans um given the
uncertainty out there here right now. Uh
in terms of what we're following in the
energy space and what you know the Asia
impact is going to be uh all these
governments are really scrambling right
now to see what they can do. South Korea
is moving to impose a fuel price cap for
the first time in nearly three decades.
The government has unveiled ceilings on
gasoline and diesel prices, deploying an
emergency tool not used since 1997 amid
surging global oil prices. President Li
Jay Mun is also calling for an extra
budget to mitigate any inflation shocks.
Total Energies is also setting caps on
fuel prices at the pump in France in a
bid to counter market volatility. It's
seeing about 15% of its oil and gas
output being curtailed by the war. The
French energy giant says its production
has been shut down or is in the process
of closing in the Middle East.
Meanwhile, the US is mulling plans to
wave a century old maritime law that
requires American ships to be used to
transport goods between US ports.
Officials are said to be considering a
30-day exemption, which would allow
foreign tankers to move products,
including oil and gasoline. The move
could help lower prices for consumers
ahead of midterm elections later on this
year.
>> All right, an update of oil prices.
We're at 96 in West Texas. As we talked
about, we're just a touch uh above the
100 level and Brent prices as to varying
degrees. Governments and companies
upstream and downstream within their
specific mandates are doing what they
can of course to mitigate the the impact
of oil prices on the consumer. there are
some jurisdictions that are uh better
structured to deal with it. Of course,
that comes down to how uh whether or not
a market is highly regulated uh or not.
I think a case in point was South Korea
uh for the first time in about a couple
of decades as Ivon was just mentioning
there in case you'd missed that uh is
coming out with some caps here. Uh I
guess as you authorities bring out some
tools in the emer in the toolkit to
really deal with this at the moment,
right? You have other countries of
course where it's actually showed up in
the form directly and quite quickly uh
on the ground as you have downstream
producers being able to pass it on very
quickly and not to mention of course the
currencies have adjusted. So a weaker
currency importing a more expensive
product is going to show up in inflation
too.
>> You're also seeing the US do more in
terms of trying to calm the market
volatility when it comes to crude. So
the latest that came out a few hours ago
a few minutes ago was the US Treasury
giving the green light for the sale of
more Russian oil. So this is the second
authorization for buyers to take up
Russian oil cargos already at sea to
help ease the growing pressure on prices
and obviously has been a big U-turn from
the US on their stance here when it
comes to Russian oil and what countries
can or cannot buy from there. So
potentially that could relieve economies
like Iran, I should say India. Um but
certainly that's going to be one thing.
Scott Besson just actually talked about
this in a post on X this morning saying
that this is really just a temporary
sale, the authorization of Russian oil
and it's very tailored right now. So,
it's a short-term measure. Don't think
of it as something permanent.
>> Uh we're just hearing now uh and quite
timely out of the Japanese. Um so, we're
looking at commentary coming through on
what the well obviously a acknowledgment
of the massive swings in financial
markets. U Mr. Kuchi's talking about
here how they're looking at obvious that
in with a sense of urgency that oil
prices and the impact on the economy
remain uncertain and they will continue
to assess the Middle East situation and
take measures. We're talking about the
Japanese right now. Just those lines
just coming through in the last in the
last few minutes uh or so. Okay. Uh
let's talk about Southeast Asia. Uh the
Philippines really comes to mind as well
given when you if you recall the initial
reaction two Mondays back when things
really kicked off was a market that
really underperformed massively in a
currency that spiked uh dollar peso of
course given the exposure of the economy
to global oil prices. Let's talk us
through what's next and what's happening
on the ground. Joining us exclusively
from Manila is the energy secretary
Shahon Garin uh to talk us through what
the government is doing with its
mandates uh and within its framework of
course to deal with the problem and
issue. Uh Madame Secretary, good
morning. Thank you for joining the
program. Can I just ask a direct
question? I know the mechanism there is
a weekly adjustment in oil prices. Um
are we likely to see another increase at
the pump by early of next week?
we uh definitely uh how much uh can't
say exactly but the the increase will be
substantial as it was last week. So uh
the impact is really on the uh the the
consumers.
>> Can you give us an update in terms of
what the outlook is for for power supply
in the Philippines right now especially
as we get closer to the summer months?
We have we have done our our simulations
already and I've met with my team and we
are planning uh interventions on the
power side because there will our
initial assessment based on last week's
uh prices there will be like a 16% jump
on electricity prices by next month but
uh hopefully with the interventions that
we will do we can um lessen the impact
uh uh despite the increase and and subs
subsequent increases in oil.
C
>> can you talk more specifically about
that uh you know what what you are
planning tangibly on on the energy price
on electricity prices specifically.
>> All right. So the Philippines is
basically we we only use uh we only use
uh petroleum and power at about 3% very
negligible except for for off-grid areas
in which uh it could be a major problem
if we don't do interventions. Now um on
the general side uh coal uh coal is
increasing at 20% uh as a blast count
and LG is I think about two two to three
times more expensive now. So that will
have an impact especially on the Moralco
rates because they use uh much of the
much of the gas fire power plants. Um so
we have to intervene in the sense that
we have to reformulate
the combination so that uh more of the
other fossils like malampaya which is
the indigenous gas that we have coal
which we can ramp up temporarily
uh while the prices are high and we are
pushing more uh of the renewable energy
power plants that are scheduled probably
like middle of this year or end of this
year. We're doing extra effort to have
them come in by this month or next
month.
>> Understood. Uh Mr. Secretary, just to
clarify the timing just so we nothing
gets misinterpreted. 16% next month
meaning next month is is 16% you're
expecting a jump in April and to clarify
that and do you have any visibility over
May?
um we don't have the visibility for May
because of the uh the prices are very
erratic. It's not just about the fossil
fuel. It's the transportation insurance
all the logistics of the on the fuel
side not just on petroleum on coal LG
even malampaya and all the rest of the
industry. So it uh the the numbers are
changing daytoday. So we will have to uh
we what we computed based on last week's
data is 16% for the month of April. Uh
but that we have to recalculate again
probably this week or next week so that
we can see more of the um more accurate
depending on the trend on the what's
happening in in Iran.
>> Yeah, I'm guessing it's a it's a very
fastmoving sort of situation here right
now. Madam Secretary, in ter if this
Iran situation
continues to be ongoing and a prolonged
sort of conflict, what what is the sort
of contingency plans that that the
Philippines is really planning on having
now?
>> Now, the Department of Energy in the
Philippines handles both fuel and uh and
power. So, on the power side, um uh the
reforms are are are we're starting
already by now uh pushing more
renewables to come in. Uh hopefully we
have about about 2,000 megawatt to come
in so that it can make up for for for
what how expensive it will be because of
LNG. And now we are uh we uh we are
pushing more for more indigenous because
Philippines cannot survive in an
environment where the international
market dictates its price. So more
indigenous resources especially on gas
and renewable and uh and on the on the
on the fuel side uh we are still
reviewing the congress is still
reviewing on revisiting the all the
regulation law which which uh leaves the
uh the the industry totally unregulated.
So the price are not regulated even the
even the supply is not. So I think it's
about time that we revisit that uh
learning from from what's happening now
in previous years also when when uh
there were oil problems in the other
side of the world. So um I think
Congress there is much appetite to
revisit the oil deregulation law.
>> Absolutely. In fact, if please correct
if I'm miscarerizing this, it it it also
somewhat uh uh uh limits your powers in
your ability to uh control on the ground
prices. Uh given the situation right
now, does it seem does it seem that more
regulation is warranted?
>> Um
it's unregulated market works when the
circumstances are good and good times,
>> right? It's a good market to have. In
bad times, it's a bad market to have.
So, there has to be uh there has to be a
balance in the powers of of the
Department of Energy. Um when does this
department of our energy when government
come in in order to make sure that the
supply and the prices are are
reasonable. So, I think there are times
that we should have uh in general it
should be unregulated, but there are
times that it should be regulated. I
believe
>> yeah especially when prices are rise I
mean brand prices are up 65% this
quarter and that's really uncharted
territory in many ways uh does the
government have currently the current
toolbox do you have any emergency
measures that you can tap emergency
tools that you can't tap to help uh
consumers uh uh weather this storm
>> now there's two there's there's two
issues uh that affects the our our
consumers it's basically the supply and
the price the price interventions are
coming in. I think this coming week
they're doing assistance to all our
farmers uh fisher fox and drivers. Uh
and and then there's the targeted kind
of assistance for for those uh in uh
most affected families. So they're
giving assistance to them. I'm not sure
if it's in kind or in in cash. And then
on on the on the price side, uh they
recent the president recently um uh
signed the certificate of uh urgent uh
the bills on the suspension of the
excise tax or reduction of excise tax.
Now on the other side though uh but but
the prices are really going high here in
the Philippines. Previously it was 20
pesos. uh next week I'm not sure but it
will be substantial also there's a huge
spike so this interventions are are
temporary let's say uh and not uh not
substantial enough and on the supply
side the intervention the of of uh the
directive of the president is make sure
we have enough supply that's the most
important thing so we are constantly
yesterday before we've been meeting with
the oil companies making sure they do
their orders already and uh we are also
exploring doing talks already in order
for the government itself or our GOCC to
procure the the box supply.
>> Uh secretary, I I know the Philippines
has expressed some intention of of
finding new oil sources beyond just the
Middle East. Can you give us an update
on that and how difficult is it to
secure these supplies from new sources?
Now
>> I I do believe it is difficult in a
sense that um it's not about the supply,
it's about the price depends on how much
are you willing to pay for the for the
fuel. So uh added to the fact that the
volatility makes makes it uncertain for
for oil our oil companies. Uh you buy
now this strike price for today and the
prices might change tomorrow. So there's
uncertainty and uh there's not much
confidence in the industry now and and
and
if you do buy one, you have to find a
ship that's willing to sail to your
country. Uh and the price of that uh of
the logistics is
is increasing dayto-day. Insurance is
high also. So there's so much to to to
consider and it's affecting all
industries also. It's not just now
there's I do believe I'd say there's a
structural change not only in the
Philippines but in the rest of the
world.
>> Okay, Madam Secretary, we got to leave
it there, but thank you so much for your
time during this sort of crisis. I
understand uh you guys are very busy.
Shang in there, Philippine Energy
Secretary joining us. This is Wilbur.
Welcome back to the China Show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour into the
session. It's a sunny day, a little bit
chilly in Hong Kong. You're certainly
feeling that chill once again across
these markets just given that Brent
still is around that $100 mark here.
You're seeing both sides of US and Iran
striking quite defiant tones when it
comes to this war. So certainly that
continues to royal uh not just when it
comes to the oil story, but really the
the impact on maybe potentially AI
supply chains right now, right? We
talked about oil, we talked about LG.
Now we got to talk about helium and what
this means when it comes to chip makers
as well, Dave.
>> Yeah. literally the fuel that cools uh
the most important parts of the process
there right and I think it's really come
um as a byproduct of course of LNG right
so I think that's really why we've
really had to dig our heels into the
research books here
>> uh in the last few
>> you learn something every day
>> you learn something every day and you
know the fact that the US is now
actually the well not now it is the
swing producer when it comes to uh that
it just so happens the other massive
producer which is Qatar has run into of
course
uh production issues there. Uh but yes,
it's playing out across the chip space.
We're looking also at MTR that is the
well for one the metro operator here. It
has of course other interests beyond
just the railway. It's it's a property
stock if you think about it too. It has
interests beyond beyond Hong Kong. It's
the biggest decliner on the Hanging
Index today. We're down about 5 and a
half%. The biggest single day drop in
about two years here.
>> Yep. And we have the CEO Jenny Yan
joining us here in in this hour to talk
us through those earnings as well and
really these big sort of uh capital
spending plans that they are unveiling
here and what this means longer term for
their financials. So certainly that's
one thing to watch stock down some 6%
here. You take a look at the rest of the
region and yeah you are seeing declines
across the board with the Nick with the
cost really leading things lower here
this morning. it is some of the chip
makers as we talk about the SKH highix
the Samsungs the TSMC's that's weighing
a lot uh that given just the market
weight that they have on these markets
and certainly you know what this means
for the whole AI supply chain right when
when you talk about our our BI analyst
Masahiro Wakuzuki says you know the
likes of South Korea the likes of Taiwan
they may only have about 3 months of
supply to really deal with this sort of
deficit uh when it comes to helium so
for now I think some of these companies
have said they're good okay okay for now
but it really kind of depends on the
duration of this Iran conflict. Uh there
you go. You are seeing SKHix as well as
Samsung lower by close to 2% here. Some
of these chipmakers in China definitely
are seeing it and hitting on Shen here.
Huahong Semi is down some 6%.
>> Yeah. Um so this is agnostic of your
politics really. This really goes into
the technology and the production
process too. Although just a caveat that
of course it's it's we haven't heard
just yet of course in terms of the
exposure on a company specific basis.
Right. Uh let's have a look at where we
are on uh commodity prices. Shanghai
crude gold is seeing some declines. It's
relatively managed and as far as today's
price range is concerned. It's early
days of course we're Friday morning. So
uh let's see what London wakes up here.
Uh the currency market uh this is really
where the pain the acute pain point is
today. uh when you look at uh EMFX right
dollar Taiwan as you can see there uh on
your screens and this really comes down
to how strong the dollar has become
because of how it's affected the Fed
output right so I think right now it's
no longer base case um interesting play
with words where the duration of the war
affects how much duration you will have
in your portfolio in fixed income right
and is it now time to in fact increase
that as rate hikes become I guess more
more the play than than otherwise. But
yes, it's really hit stocks and it's
it's hit bonds. Both are now these
currencies too.
>> Usually higher yields support
currencies, but you're not seeing that
in this part of the world. Korea is a
good example where you're starting to
see slumping debt is fueling more angst
uh in South Korea. Um so certainly, you
know, the EM story continues to be royal
in some ways given that we are
continuing to see elevated uh oil
prices. is Goldman Sachs was recently
the one that said, you know, as you
mentioned, Fed cut no longer our base
case for 2026. They've also had to push
back their predictions here. It used to
be June and September were the next Fed
cuts. They're pushing that back now to
the back half to September and December.
Uh let's get to Lanting too, our
managing editor for Asia Equities. She
joins us from Singapore. Uh Lanting, I
mean it continues to be a headline
driven sort of market here right now.
What has your team got their eye on
today?
Yeah, I think today is as you guys
mentioned, it's all about the new supply
risks that uh investors had to contend
with on daily basis. Of course, helium
becomes one. Uh investors seem to have
woken up to the risk yesterday in a
meaningful way and analysts are
scrambling to really analyze how much
stock piles uh those trip makers in Asia
and around the world actually have. And
we've seen of course on the one side
people talking about the shortage um you
know of the supply can only last a month
or so. Uh but on the other side UBS is
saying that you know helium is actually
not a material cost component for chip
makers and also chip makers typically
have excuse me multiple sources of
helium arrangements. So to them it's
it's not a major concern. And aside from
that, I think people are also looking at
other sort of sudden risks popping up in
India. Yesterday we saw supply um food
delivery stocks dropping quite a bit
because uh restaurants in India couldn't
uh have enough gas to to to make enough
food to put on their menu. And of course
those food delivery companies are
contending with higher costs as well.
And if you look at you know beauty or
cosmetics companies they are facing
higher chemical costs because you know
they couldn't get enough from the Middle
East region because of the shutdown in
the straight of Hmus. So th those are
the sort of new risks people are just
have to have to calculate and price in
every day.
uh Leing uh in as far as the Chinese
market is concerned, you know, the
concept of resiliency relative
outperformance because most are still
down of course on an absolute basis. Uh
are you hearing anything new along those
lines?
>> Yeah, I think uh you know something
something around open claw every day.
Today we saw news that Alibaba launched
its uh mo mobile app and yesterday we
heard BYU also did uh the same thing. I
think there's a lot of sort of analysis
going on among the the comm investor
community. I think the consensus seems
to be people think that Tencent is going
to emerge as the biggest winner of this
open claw uh craze because Tensen can
leverage its huge uh uh chat app such as
WeChat and QQ uh to to really adopt
another layer of uh of agentic AI on top
of that. So I think Tencent is going to
report earnings uh next week. Alibaba as
well. So that's going to be a big
question that investors are going to ask
these companies about.
>> All right, Lanting. Thank you. Ling too
there. Our managing editor for Asia
Equities joining us out of Singapore.
Another major story beyond just Iran,
beyond just of course uh helium and the
AI supply chain is of course what
happens soon, which is of course trade
talks. Top trade negotiators from China
and the US will meet in Paris this
weekend ahead of a summit between
presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping
later on this month. Let's bring in our
China correspondent Mllo. She joins us
now from the Chinese capital on what we
could prepare for this weekend here and
what to expect.
>> Hey Ivon. Yes, this is going to be a
high stakes meeting because whatever is
discussed over the weekend will likely
set the stage for the sort of outcomes
we will see when President Trump visits
Beijing at the end of the month. And
bear in mind, China has not officially
announced that Hurley Fung and Scott
Basson are meeting this weekend. And
China has not officially announced the
date of President Trump's visit to China
as well. So all the information we've
been getting so far is coming from
Washington. And as you said, there is a
lot on the agenda. Of course, yesterday
we heard from Jameson Grier who is also
attending the meeting over the weekend
and he said his office will be
investigating over a dozen countries
including China under the section 301 of
the trade act which looks into over
capacity. So this could potentially
kickstart yet another round of trade
negotiations, tariff negotiations
between the two sides which I think is
something that China definitely doesn't
want to see. They want to maintain that
trade truth. We thought initially maybe
going into this, China would have more
leverage here because of the US Supreme
Court striking down those tariffs. But
clearly that's sort of a mood point now
as the Trump administration looks for
other ways to increase levies on China.
Soybean purchases also a major item on
the agenda as well because the last time
he and Trump met in Busousan, China had
agreed to buy 12 million tons of
soybeans in the last 3 months of last
year and they have fulfilled that
pledge. But they also agreed to buy
another 25 million tons per year over
the next three years. And right now
there is fear that China might put a
pause on that given the threat of more
tariffs, given the threat of the Iran
war dragging on for a long time as well.
Because mind you, China has been
diversifying its sources of soybeans.
And Brazil has emerged as a major rival
to the United States. Their beans are
plentiful and cheap. It doesn't make
much economic sense for Chinese crushers
to buy from the US. And President Trump
was touting that China might buy 20
million tons this season, but experts
believe that a more likely scenario is
China would wait until September where
the next crop comes in in the US. That
would push prices down and perhaps
that's when China might look into buying
that. And last thing to mention, of
course, is Taiwan. This couldn't have
been overemphasized. When I uh attended
the press briefing over the weekend with
foreign minister Wangi, he kept
repeating this that this is the very
core of China's core issues. There has
been reports that the US was uh looking
to delay any announcement of that trade
deal, a 13 billion uh dollar trade deal
with Taiwan in order to smooth the path
to this summit. So the question is
whether that is going to be delayed
indefinitely, whether the US will cancel
that arms deal with Taiwan. China
certainly will want to see that happen.
Minman, thank you. Mman low there in
Beijing for our China correspondent on
reports of course 15th and 16th. That's
two three days away of course that
meeting in Paris. Uh just ahead here on
the show, we will explore Asia's rapidly
growing ETF space in our new weekly
segment ETF IQ Asia. Catch your
exclusive coming up with the CEO of CSOP
later this hour. This is the China show.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Okay, here's a big story that
really engulfed the the industry here in
Hong Kong. You have Hong Kong's
financial regulators have arrested eight
people as part of this investigation
into a $40 million insider insider
dealing and corruption system that
involves two major brokerages and a
hedge fund manager.
>> Let's get to our Asia Finance and wealth
managing editor Lulu Chen. She's with us
here. Uh tell us a little bit more what
the latest is right now on the
investigation. So what uh authorities
have disclosed is that they raided more
than a dozen locations, arrested eight
people, and then also unearthed 315
million Hong Kong dollars over uh
alleged insider dealing trading from
shortselling profits. Um while they
didn't disclose the names of the
companies that they're looking into, um
two brokerages in Hong Kong, Citic
Securities, uh and also Guian did say
that authorities visited their offices
with search warrants, took documents. Um
there's another investment management
firm, a hedge fund that's also involved
in all of this. Um we were told that
Infini is the is the firm, this
investment firm. um one of the firms
that was also uh swept up in the probes
during this process.
>> What could this mean for the companies
involved and for the the general market
situation here in Hong Kong?
>> Well, the investigations are still
ongoing. So what they've said is that uh
executives at two brokerages took bribes
400 uh4 million Hong Kong dollars um for
disclosing non-public information to the
hedge fund before they uh companies
placed uh private share placements and
in the the fund using the that
information profited from those deals by
placing short bets. Um so right now um
uh we we expect that um the
investigations are going to center
around those dealings and then um more
information will come out as the
authorities look into this.
>> Yeah. Um obviously it has repercussions
of course for the industry there. Lulu
Chen, our Bloomberg Age of Finance and
Wealth Managing Editor, uh, our very own
Charnie Wong from Bloomberg Intelligence
did have a sort of reaction piece and
really did say when it comes to the
reputation hit uh, here for Hong Kong
certainly is going to be a big one here
from this investigation when it comes to
bribes and the like. Um, still ahead,
we're going to get the earnings and
really overall outlook when it comes to
MTR. The CEO, Jenny Young, is joining us
here after the company announced
earnings that missed the street. She
joins us exclusively in just a few
minutes. This is Wilberg.
>> Right. Uh welcome back. So we're uh
continuing to unpack really this I guess
multi- faceted impact on the chip
crunch. Right. So we the the new element
now here is that these chip makers who
are now scrambling to get supply to the
market are now having to deal with
another headache which is really uh one
of the key components that goes into the
production process of this and of course
as you can see markets are asking
questions later and uh re really selling
some of the big names first and some
pressure of course coming through in
Taiwan and Korea here.
>> Yeah. So those are the ones that you
know obviously are dealing with this
given the fact that we already have been
dealing with a memory supply crunch and
this really just adds to of course those
supply concerns. Uh just given that
helium is you know there's not really
much of a replacement for that.
>> Uh and you know for now it seems like
they have enough for the maybe according
to Bloomberg intelligence 3 months
before this sort of deficit really
starts to hit them. uh but certainly the
the longer this sort of uh conflict uh
continues that really is going to be a
big massive sort of hit for them uh in
terms of what you're seeing right so the
US is still kind of the largest helium
producer there is globally but second to
that is Qatar so now that we have of
course essentially that area um is and
the straight of effectively shut uh this
adds to those strains because when you
take a look at the the energy LG export
halt in Qatar
We've been already shut for that plant
in Qatar for about 5 days now and that
is the longest streak in data going back
to 2008.
>> Yes. I remember the conversation we were
having when this specific news broke on
this closure and it really goes into the
reputation from the Qatari perspective,
right? That they are the the reliable
supplier of of LG. So when this really
hit the markets, it caused obviously the
first degree was it really caused gas
prices to move up and then quite
literally the derivative which is helium
is now playing out across the market
really on your screens right you just
see it go from offline online to
literally offline as as we speak and the
question is and there's no answer to
this right how long will it remain
>> the case and again we don't know given
the events there
>> when you're talking about this this Ras
Lafan um it it takes out about a third
of global helium production offline
according to blubber economics as
they've been crunching the numbers. So
that could be a big hit for some of
these chip makers here. A very essential
component in this whole supply chain
when it comes to AI. Um so that is sort
of the big risk here. The next thing for
markets to watch obviously here are some
other stories that we're tracking too
when it comes to how you know Asian
nations are really grappling with
volatility around fuel prices and the
like. South Korea moving to impose a
fuel price cap for the first time in
nearly three decades. The government has
unveiled ceilings on gasoline and diesel
prices, deploying an emergency tool not
used since 1997. But President Li Mong
is also calling for an extra budget to
mitigate any inflation shocks. Total
Energies is also setting caps on fuel
prices at the pump in France in a bid to
counter market volatility. It's seeing
about 15% of its oil and gas output
being curtailed by the war. The French
energy giant says its production has
been shut down or is in the process of
closing in the Middle East. Meanwhile,
the US is mulling plans to wave a
century old maritime law that requires
American ships be used to transport
goods between US ports. Officials are
said to be considering a 30-day
exemption, which would allow foreign
tankers to move products, including oil
and gas. The move could help lower
prices for consumers ahead of midterm
elections later on this year. Right.
Along the same lines, we we just spoke
with the Philippine energy secretary
around the situation on the ground
there. Uh, a couple of things. The
country does expect uh prices of
electricity to go up 16% next month.
They're also expecting pump prices to go
up next week. Uh, she spoke to us
exclusively a few minutes ago. Uh, let's
have a listen to the Philippine Energy
Secretary Shon Sharon Karim.
We have done our our simulations already
and I've met with my team and we are
planning uh interventions on the power
side because there will our initial
assessment based on last week's uh
prices. There will be like a 16% jump on
electricity prices by next month. But uh
hopefully with the interventions that we
will do we can um lessen the impact uh
uh despite the increase and and
subsequent increases in oil. C
>> can you talk more specifically about
that uh you know what's what you are
planning tangibly on on the energy price
from on electricity prices specifically?
>> All right. So the Philippines is
basically we we only use um we only use
uh petroleum and power. about 3% very
negligible except for for off-grid areas
in which uh it could be a major problem
if we don't do interventions. Now um on
the general side uh coal uh coal is
increasing at 20% uh as a blast count
and LG is I think about two to three
times more expensive now. So that will
have an impact especially on the Malco
rates because they use uh much of the
much of the gas fired power plants. Um
so we have to intervene in the sense
that we have to reformulate
the combination so that uh more of the
other fossils like malampaya which is
the indigenous gas that we have coal
which we can ramp up for temporarily
uh while the prices are high and we are
pushing more uh of the renewable energy
power plants that are scheduled probably
like middle of this year or end of this
year. We're doing extra effort to have
them come in by this month or next
month.
>> In ter if this Iran situation
continues to be ongoing and a prolonged
sort of conflict, what what is the sort
of contingency plans that that the
Philippines is really planning on having
now?
>> Now, the Department of Energy in the
Philippines handles both fuel and uh and
power. So on the power side, um, uh, the
reforms are are are we're starting
already by now, uh, pushing more
renewables to come in. Uh, hopefully we
have about about 2,000 megawatt to come
in so that it can make up for for for
what how expensive it will be because of
LG. And now we are uh we uh we are
pushing more for more indigenous because
Philippines cannot survive in an
environment where the international
market dictates its price. So more
indigenous resources especially on gas
and renewable and uh and on the on the
on the fuel side uh we are still
reviewing the Congress is still
reviewing on revisiting the older the
regulation law which which uh leaves the
uh the the industry totally unregulated.
So the price are not regulated even the
even the supply is not. So I think it's
about time that we revisit that uh
learning from from what's happening now
in previous years also when when uh
there were oil problems in the other
side of the world. So um I think
Congress there is much appetite to
revisit the oil deregulation law.
>> Yeah, there we go. That was the earlier
conversation we had with the Philippine
energy secretary exclusively uh here on
CH. You can check that out by the way on
the terminal. It's also on our new video
hub. Right on that very topic right
global oil prices global oil stocks Asia
we're doing this right now given of
course the recent decline it's really
been whipsawed by a whipsoing prices
energy complex on an index level
subindex level that is specifically
we're down about quarter 1% as far as
that's concerned we have pulled back a
little bit uh from the cutoff on oil
prices but certainly make no uh make no
doubt that this is of course
substantially higher uh even just
compared to a few weeks back here Honda,
we're looking at the earning season.
This one really standing out to the
downside as you can see on your screens
here. Um coming out with really um un
non-productive guidance as far as the
bulls are concerned here. Uh down 6%
going into the Japanese launch break.
That really goes into the fact that we
are in earning season and the fact that
you are getting almost executives being
forced to talk about and address how the
energy complexity will be affecting
their outlook on such short notice is a
very uh difficult of course exercise to
do. Uh that's just to say uh we are
going to get a lot more earnings
conversations coming up and this will
feature obviously into the outlook given
how widely consequential oil prices are
especially when they're up 62% on the
quarter. Uh speaking of energy, this one
is actually going the opposite way. Uh
we're looking at of course the US right
now uh will not be imposing uh uh
tariffs here on on some of these imports
coming through out of China as well.
Mixed picture as far as that is
concerned. Right. Uh we're going into
the lunch break over in Tokyo. So we'll
get you guys an update of what's
happening there. Futures are pointing to
some upside going into the thick of the
Friday session. So in fact it's worth
noting that losses while they are losses
across the Asia Pacific are quite
limited as far as prices are concerned.
Lots more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
heading to lunch break in just a moment.
And yes, we're still seeing some pretty
steep declines here. We're down about 1%
for the naked 225. Dave did mention just
what Honda is doing here right now. Uh
just given what we've been seeing when
it comes to what they said about EVs and
of course this oil price spike that
really is something that is starting to
role not just you know car makers
companies but really just overall supply
chains, right? When you take a look at
AI and what this means for chip makers
and helium even here today. So that
still is the big theme they're watching
out for. 159 levels for for dollar yen.
We're we're stabilizing a little bit,
but we are getting closer to that 160
level. And we continue to see JGB yields
heading higher by two basis points. Keep
in mind BOJ does meet next week. We'll
see what they say about this whole oil
price spike and how they're going to be
handling it as well, Dave.
>> Yeah. Uh and the Feds next week, too.
Oh, yeah. Right. So, uh while they are
expected to basically not do anything,
they'll need to really address
>> how long they can not do anything.
>> Not do anything. Uh given that's
currently what markets are pricing right
now. So, no move for the Fed this year.
Yes, in case you missed that. The big
development overnight in the rates
market is the markets have now priced
out uh as base case. Easing is still
priced but as base case no more rate
hike for this year at the current
pricing. This is an everchanging of
course pricing in the rates markets. Uh
we're down about half of 1%. Most
sectors are down including energy I
should note. Uh the Bloomberg Asia
dollar index is also on the softer side
which kind of masks really the weakness
we're seeing across EMFX specifically
given the what's going on there in the
Middle East and again there is no sign
at least publicly uh of an offramp
anytime soon with both sides of course
remaining quite defined of course uh in
for their respective bases.
>> Yep. So, uh, certainly it is riskoff
still once again as we wrap up another
what has been a very volatile two weeks
of of trading and really headline driven
sort of uh, markets. But let's let's
talk a little bit more about the
fundamentals and really earnings and
we're checking MTR shares here right
now. Uh, we are still seeing a quite a
bit drop here. We're down 6.3%. This is
the biggest drop we've seen uh since
nearly two years ago after the company
did report net income for the full year
that missed analyst estimates the
company says will continue to reinvest
property development profits into its
railway construction and operations.
Joining us exclusively is the CEO Jenny
Young. Jenny, thank you so much for
joining us. The market still seems a bit
disappointed by these news. Uh overall,
this seems to be 2025 a year of falling
revenue, uh falling also net profit.
Beyond just the headlines, how would you
characterize the year?
>> Right. Um, I would like to talk a bit
more about the drop in the recurring
revenue uh or the earning. In fact,
there were a few uh one-off uh like the
hungal line impairment uh as well as
some past uh rental concession uh right
off um as well as contributed uh to a
some extent by the bad weather last year
and those alone accounted for 700
million. But I think if we look at the
fundamentals, I would still believe the
company is very strong. For example, the
occupancy rate for our shopping mall as
well as our station shops achieved
almost 100%. Representing demand of the
uh assets and also in fact our patronage
uh record growth um both in terms of
both in the uh cross boundary lulo macho
which record about 8% growth and our
highspeed station uh uh recording uh
16%. The domestic is almost fat. So we
see a lot of very uh healthy and strong
fundamentals and we are in fact seeing
uh more stabilization in the past few
months uh with the rental reversion
pressure I would say stabilizing
alongside with the uh economy which is
in Hong Kong also stabilizing a bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I almost forgot that we had that
series of black rains almost one after
the other last year but I think was the
was the weather issue. Uh obviously we
don't know what the weather's going to
be like this year but what is the
current outlook for recurring revenue
this year compared to last if you strip
out the one-offs
>> right uh we expect it to be uh as I said
uh cautiously optimistic uh as we see in
the first two months of our
crossboundary travel as uh which has
been a growth area actually continue to
show very strong growth in percentages
as much as what I just described for the
last year and even more
>> and then in our as I said in the uh uh
shopping malls and the station uh rental
we in fact seeing some uh in some pocket
of trace in fact recording quite good uh
growth and um also stabilizing as I said
and with the high occupancy uh in both
our station shops and our shopping malls
we believe the rental income will
perform will be able to perform steadily
this year. So there are pretty, you
know, uh few factors that seems to be uh
uh pointing to a better direction this
year.
>> It's been a very interesting 2026 to to
say the least. I I don't think we will
be, you know, last year thinking about
we would be talking about Iran and and
the oil price shock that we're seeing.
In terms of you know the impact on on
MTR, do you see this inflationary sort
of impact on either property development
or even fairs overall? And are you able
to or are you going to have to pass on
those costs to your consumers?
>> Mhm. Uh for our fairs, we are regulated
under a fair adjustment mechanism uh
which is quite um uh reflective of the
economic condition and affordability of
the public. So I think the public can be
rest assured that that is something that
um is regulated. Um but for the um uh
like the uh instability in the rest of
the world um at at the moment we do not
see direct impact but for sure the
increase in oil price eventually will
translate into some cost increase. So
the company is actually u anticipating
and also managing that carefully and we
do not see you know much impact at the
moment but we are monitoring that very
closely. M do you have initial estimates
of what that cost impact likely will be
on the energy side of course.
>> Mhm. Uh we are currently you know
estimating the impact uh but hopefully
that will not be you know uh much impact
on the company given that you know um uh
we are very green form of transport. Uh
of course electricity is one form of
cost but uh we have a lot of other areas
that you know um is relatively stable uh
in terms of costing.
I guess the market is also a bit
concerned about you know the government
according to the next the the latest
budget was pressing for more sort of
this launch of multiple mega railway
development projects right the newest
discussion has been on western rail to
send genen you also have the the south
south island line west
>> you know it does bring questions about
what this means for you know mtr's free
cash flow your balance sheets even
dividend growth you know how do you
respond to some of the investor concerns
now
>> um in fact the rail plus property or
sometime we call it the rail plus
community model is a very successful
model in funding railway. Uh it enables
the company to build railway plus the
community around the station without the
need of a public uh finance and it also
enable the company to generate a
recurring income after the line is open
and after you know properties and uh
developments around the stations are
built that that we believe will continue
to be one of the growth and success
factors of the MTR and even for like
this year uh we actually recording a
very handsome uh property development
income of uh 11 billion.
>> Yeah.
>> And although um the underlying represent
a a slight drop over last year, but we
are still talking about quite a record
high profit underlying profit of over 15
billion um it tells to the strength of
the model because some of this income
are from the sale of properties that we
have in the past. and also like this
year um more near-term in the pipeline
we are having 8,000 units uh in nine
property size that will be sold this
year and we are also tendering out you
know a few big property sites uh in in
the coming year um adding fuel to the
long-term growth of the company and of
course for Hong Kong as well. I'm
actually curious to get your views
because of 8,000 and you know there's a
lot of talk about the recovery in home
prices which well I'll get to in a
moment but suffice to say the model of
sort of rail plus one do you think that
>> is are you worried at all over the
financial the feasibility of you being
able to fund
>> all the multiple expansion projects
right now does that model hold up amidst
the current expansion plan that looks
quite major actually which is a good
thing
>> uh MTL has all along have a very solid
and prudent financial management. Uh so
in anticipate anticipation of the over
100 billion of uh new projects that we
are currently building in fact we have
already launched a series of initiatives
financial instruments to help us to fund
the cash flow.
>> Okay.
>> Right. And and at different juncture
when we need more definitely of course
we'll raise have to raise more cash flow
and the company also will of course look
into our situation in terms of entering
into further new projects. uh whether
the company will have the capability I
mean and the capacity to handle them
financially. Yeah.
>> Uh in terms of the rebound in in
residential property I think we're
starting to see the beginnings of that.
Um what is your assessment and do you
think commercial property is the next to
follow
>> right? Um we actually we are seeing the
uh last year has been the first half we
see the revaluation of uh uh the
property portfolio that we have. We saw
of course a decline uh understandably
but actually in the second half we
already seeing uh a stabilization or
narrowing the devaluation and in terms
of commercial MTR is not holding a big
commercial portfolio. So for us is
relatively uh insignificant compared
with the malls and the investment
properties that we hold.
>> The outlook for the non-Hong part of the
business this year.
>> Um the outlook um in actually in
Australia is very positive. Uh we have
just won a big contract in Sydney, the
Sydney Metro West uh which is actually
over 20 years contract and uh we are
partnering with CLC and TCT uh two
Chinese companies and that is a very
substantial contract and apart from that
uh we are actually running the rest of
the metro line of the uh uh majority of
the metro line of Sydney. So we have uh
uh other two major contracts
>> and we have actually also just tender uh
a bit in the property development in
Paramea in Sydney. Uh so I I believe in
Sydney we are actually having quite uh
very uh deep and wide business and so in
Melbourne and in Melbourne we have just
been pre-qualified for the ML5 the whole
uh Melbourne metro train commuter
network. uh that is another uh we are
the incumbent but the contract is up for
renewal so we have just been
pre-qualified okay
>> and uh we are going to put in all our
effort to beat for that so Australia we
are doing uh well and expanding and in
mainland on the other hand uh we just
opened two new lines last year and I
think that also somehow of course
because they are still new affect the uh
profitability right because patronage
needs some time to build up in uh rail
network And we are starting station
commercial revenue uh uh station
commercial uh collaboration with the
local metros. It is very much welcome
because they will help them uh to
improve their non-fair revenue on top of
their fair. So we're already now working
with uh uh Chongqing uh with
Guango and with Hanzo. They are actually
in uh very much welcome uh are joining
them to develop their station shops in
their stations. Yeah. So, uh, a lot's
going on, a lot's happening.
>> We we'd love to hear an update soon.
Jenny, thank you so much for taking
taking the time and yeah, let's let
let's hope, of course, your expectations
that things do, uh, go somewhat opposite
way of of 2025. Uh, Jenny Young there,
of course, CEO, uh, of MTR. Uh, just
ahead here, we are exploring Asia's
rapidly growing ETF space. It's our new
segment coming up, ETF IQ Asia. That's
up in a couple of minutes. This is the
China Show.
You are watching the China show. So, in
case if you're curious, we have a bit of
a different look today.
>> It's not coral, Dave.
I'm going to switch the background.
>> Yeah, we're a bit of a '90s techno look.
No, it's a a bit of a futuristic look.
It's a Welcome to our new weekly
segment, ETF IQ Asia.
>> Yeah, you know, for the next several
weeks, we'll be diving deeper into the
space with interviews with experts and
executives in this corner of this
booming market. And take a look at this
chart, right? This just goes to show why
we are launching this. Hong Kong is in
the midst of an ETF boom. Over the past
decade and a half, the value of ETF
assets under management here have grown
to more than $80 billion from just under
10 billion not too long ago. Since 2020,
Hangen Bank has been the top ETF issuer
in the city. But there's been a change
in the top with CSOP now taking the
number one spot driven by the popularity
of its funds tracking Chinese tech
stocks and single stock leverage ETFs
for South Korea, Samsung, and SKH. Dave?
>> Yeah, absolutely. In fact, let's uh talk
to the CEO, what it feels like to be on
top, what the plans are, how this
changes their plans and strategy.
Joining us here on set is Tingshan,
CSOP, asset management CEO. Well, first,
thank you so much for taking the time to
speak with us. The number one spot is
somewhat coveted, but it's also quite
there's a lot of pressure that comes
with that position. I I just want to
start though by asking because the the a
lot of your products have really come
into the spotlight the last two weeks
because of the big swings in the market.
Has anything stood out to you in as far
as the most popular products or big
flows are concerned when you look at
what's happened in the last two weeks?
Uh thanks uh David and Ivan and really
it's uh it's good time to hear uh to
talk about the ETF as you said you know
uh COP will you become the number one um
ETF issuer and um
>> uh given you know the market booming and
also the AI people talking about AI the
technology and recently you said um
because of the Iran war and people the
focus is not no longer at like AI
technology how it can evolve our our
society but like the street of hormones
>> yes
>> and whether it's uh it can the war how
the war will goes on and the basic line
for that uh I think from our my house
view is is contained by extended
so uh so right now uh people thinking uh
from our point of view is like um uh the
war will last a little bit longer, but
we hope it can end shortly. And if
that's the case, um obviously, you know,
put it simple. It's like the duration of
the the conflict is the dominant
variables in the whole equation,
>> right? And if it goes shorter and
obviously I I I think you know it will
go back to fundamental and then people
will risk and also mini reverse people
will go back come back to to those hot
names like we talk about SK highex and
sens two times definitely will come back
>> but if it will last longer and out of
people's expectation
probably that will gives the market um a
headache a big headache.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I also remember Deing Chen a few
years ago we were at the exchange and
you were launching all these Saudi ETFs
and during this exchange between Hong
Kong and the Middle East and really kind
of deepening those ties.
>> Do you see the Iran conflict in any way
impacting sort of the exchange that CSOP
has had with the Middle East?
>> Yeah. So we we at 2023 we bring uh Saudi
ETF uh listed on Hong Kong stock
exchange and that's a a big event and
people uh from um IFC globally to look
at uh Middle East as uh investable uh
assets and uh and afterwards it it
proves that it's it's right and right
now you can see the the booming of the
whole Saudi economy uh you know before
this before and um a lot of investment
opportunities even in Saudi and in UAE
they have been become uh like a a tax
center in some way somehow
>> right
>> uh but right now obviously we we see
challenges and we see you know a lot of
people in the past went to uh uh Middle
East uh and also you know in Middle East
they have their regional uh IFC's like
like Dubai and um
>> their web 3 business is booming as well.
But we after these two weeks, we see a
lot of people come back to Hong Kong and
a lot of people are talking about, you
know, uh um move their assets uh to Hong
Kong again. I think from that point of
view, it's u uh it's it's a game for
Hong Kong. But from from the whole uh
industry point of view, we still hope
like the situation can be cooled down
and uh you know, everybody can go back
to business
>> as usual and look at the fundamentals
again.
>> Yeah. the if you're number one now the
do you have aspirations in terms of
what's the target aum or otherwise or
something else does it affect how you
strategize look at how you price your
products
>> to the market
>> so we're very fortunate you know uh to
have uh support from a lot of people and
especially from my my my my co-workers
in SOP we have been waiting for this
moment for for many years I would say
and right now um you know we are we
managing 59 ETFs in the town we are the
deepest and the wiest uh ETF uh offer in
in this town and also uh like the uh we
introduce a lot of uh innovative
products to the market. We bring SK
highex and hands uh uh uh and and
Samsung electronic two times leverage
immerse single star to the town and um
>> right now it's really a sort of like
people say it's like a super cycle for
the AI memory chips. Uh SK Hinx and
Samsung will be definitely the one and
you know Korean market they are ID
market. It's not easy to access. So in
order to participate or or or get the
investment chance, you need to bring
some uh interesting products uh you know
to your spart and uh we did it last year
and um the market definitely reward us
by by you know a lot of cash inflow into
this products.
>> So less than 6 months our SK high two
times 7709. So the AOM is surpass 20
billion Hong Kong dollar. It's it it is
you know one of I think the most uh fast
growth ETF in SEO's history and also
this one is also globally the top three
uh AUM ETF as well. So you can see that
I think from from strategy wise uh COP
will definitely will do more innovation
products and uh also you know um Hong
Kong and mainland China in this region.
Uh I would say the whole society goes to
the like aging society and to serve like
aging wealth people. We will do a more a
little bit more about like a fixed
income plus or incomes plus uh products
like a cover call something like that.
Cover core probably is not familiar with
a lot of people but this year we
introduced or last year we introduced
>> that's a good income product actually.
>> Yeah income product. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I was going to ask you about some
of these Korea single stock. These are
all leveraged ETFs and obviously there
is a compounding effect. We were talking
to you know the CEO of direction just
this week about
>> how this can really
>> in some ways be fast returns but also
could be quite
>> hurtful for a lot of retail uh
>> investors out there. Do you think that
there needs to be more regulatory sort
of regulations around these sort of
complex products and how is CSOP
preparing for it?
>> Yeah yeah yeah it's a very good
question. So uh for those single sty
because it's daily rebalanced products
you will have a lot of compounding
effect on that. So definitely we needs
quite a lot of uh client educations and
also uh you know uh regulations uh
around that products to protect the best
interest of clients and I think also
from the regulatory point of view is
like you if you try to have people
introduce this kind of product on the
market you definitely will test them
whether they have the knowledge or have
the they have the capability to handling
this kind of uh uh uh complex products
>> and also for for Korean market is a
little bit uh different from other
market because I I say it's ID market.
So even for institutions is very
difficult to to to get into there and so
for for for retail investors there no
way. So that that that gives us ultimate
question. So whether is two times too
high for them.
>> Yeah. So yeah
>> interesting. Ding Chen is great to have
you. Thank you so much for kicking off
of course this segment for us. Uh that
was Ding Chen, their CSOP asset
management CEO joining us here. You can
tune in to ETF IQ Asia every Friday on
the China show. We're bringing you more
analysis and conversations with top
market players and newsmakers. This is
right. Uh just before we wrap up our
shows, lots more of course as far as the
the trading day is concerned. A look at
the hanging index. We're coming off
lows. Last hour of the morning session
is just ahead. That's it from us here on
the China show today and this week. We
will see you all on Monday.